Improved support for custom configs in data tests (#5679)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/reference/data-test-configs.md

```

</File>

#### Specify custom configurations for generic data tests

> _Currently available in dbt Cloud only. The `custom_config` key will become available in dbt Core later this year._

Reviewer: ```suggestion
_Currently available in dbt Cloud only. Specifying custom configurations for data tests will become available in dbt Core later this year._
```

Reviewer 2: @nghi-ly Could we also add a Release Note for this? It should include the same callout re: dbt Cloud / Core availability

> Use the `custom_config` key to specify custom configurations for data tests. For example, the following specifies custom Snowflake configurations that dbt should use when executing the `unique` data test:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use any custom config key to specify custom configurations for data tests. For example, the following specifies custom Snowflake configurations that dbt should use when executing the `unique` data test:
```

```yml

models:
  - name: my_model
    columns:
      - name: id
        tests:
          - unique:
          - config:

>              custom_config: snowflake_warehouse

Reviewer 3: `custom_config` is a fill-in for any config object the best adapter-specific example would be `snowflake_warehouse` for dbt-snowflake users as it means they could change the size of the virtual warehouse they run the tests against which could save them some time/cost.

so in this the actual config would look like

```
models:
  - name: my_model
    columns:
      - name: id
        tests:
          - unique:
          - config:
             snowflake_warehouse: xxx
```

Author: thanks for clarifying that it's just a placeholder!

Reviewer 3: I hadn't gotten to put it up yet but here's a rough draft I was working on. @graciegoheen or @MichelleArk do either of you have thoughts on this (not sure of how aware of this you two are)?

Placing config objects in the `config:` now allows users to use any config they would like in data tests. Including adapter-specific ones like `snowflake_warehouse` which can offer benefits to tests.

ex of a model:

```
models:
  - name: my_model
    columns:
      - name: color
        tests:
          - accepted_values:
              values: ['blue', 'red']
              config:
                severity: warn
                snowflake_warehouse: my_warehouse
                post-hook: "ANALYZE TABLE my_model"

```

Reviewer: I think the real examples is better than the placeholder to avoid confusion! When I first read these docs I thought there was an actual config called `custom_config`

Reviewer 2: @graciegoheen I agree!

>              custom_config: snowflake_warehouse

Reviewer: ```suggestion
             snowflake_warehouse: my_warehouse
```

```

</File>

#### Specify custom configurations for generic data tests

> _Currently available in dbt Cloud only. Specifying custom configurations for data tests will become available in dbt Core later this year._

Reviewer 4: Is "later this year" v1.9? If so we can list that as a pre-req. It's in the dropdown

> Use any custom config key to specify custom configurations for data tests. For example, the following specifies the `snowflake_warehouse` custom config that dbt should use when executing the `accepted_values` data test. Given the config, the data test runs on a different Snowflake virtual warehouse than the one in your default connection to enable better price-performance with a different warehouse size, or more granular cost allocation and visibility.

Reviewer 4: Might work to split this up...
```suggestion
Use any custom config key to specify custom configurations for data tests. For example, the following specifies the `snowflake_warehouse` custom config that dbt should use when executing the `accepted_values` data test:
```

Author: great idea!

```yml

models:
  - name: my_model
    columns:
      - name: color
        tests:
          - accepted_values:
              values: ['blue', 'red']
              config:
                severity: warn
                snowflake_warehouse: my_warehouse

> ```

Reviewer 4: ...and put the follow up down here
```suggestion
```

Given the config, the data test runs on a different Snowflake virtual warehouse than the one in your default connection to enable better price-performance with a different warehouse size or more granular cost allocation and visibility.
```

> ```

Reviewer 4: ...and put the follow up down here (note: due to the ``` in the line, I can't properly make a suggestion. Seems like an oversight on githubs part)

Given the config, the data test runs on a different Snowflake virtual warehouse than the one in your default connection to enable better price-performance with a different warehouse size or more granular cost allocation and visibility.

```

</File>

#### Specify custom configurations for generic data tests

_Currently available in dbt Cloud only. Specifying custom configurations for data tests will become available in dbt Core later this year._

> Use any custom config key to specify custom configurations for data tests. For example, the following specifies the `snowflake_warehouse` custom config that dbt should use when executing the `accepted_values` data test. The config defines the size of the virtual warehouse which will help improve performance and reduce costs during runs: 

Author: ```suggestion
Use any custom config key to specify custom configurations for data tests. For example, the following specifies the `snowflake_warehouse` custom config that dbt should use when executing the `accepted_values` data test. The config defines the size of the virtual warehouse that you want used to help improve performance and reduce costs during runs: 
```

> Use any custom config key to specify custom configurations for data tests. For example, the following specifies the `snowflake_warehouse` custom config that dbt should use when executing the `accepted_values` data test. The config defines the size of the virtual warehouse that you want used to help improve performance and reduce costs during runs: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use any custom config key to specify custom configurations for data tests. For example, the following specifies the `snowflake_warehouse` custom config that dbt should use when executing the `accepted_values` data test. This way, the data test will run on a different virtual warehouse from the connection default — enabling better price-performance with a different warehouse size, or more-granular cost allocation and visiblity.
```

```yml

models:
  - name: my_model
    columns:
      - name: color
        tests:
          - accepted_values:
              values: ['blue', 'red']
              config:
                severity: warn
                snowflake_warehouse: my_warehouse

>                 post-hook: "ANALYZE TABLE my_model"

Reviewer 2: This one is weird, let's remove it
```suggestion
```
